FRINX_ODL_Distribution/Carbon/Operations_Manual/running-frinx-odl-initial.md, before:

[Documentation main page](https://frinxio.github.io/Frinx-docs/)
[Operations Manual main page](https://frinxio.github.io/Frinx-docs/FRINX_ODL_Distribution/Carbon/operations_manual.html)
# Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution
<!-- TOC -->

- [Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution](#activating-the-frinx-odl-distribution)
    - [Download the FRINX ODL Distribution](#download-the-frinx-odl-distribution)
    - [Activate your FRINX ODL Distribution](#activate-your-frinx-odl-distribution)
    - [Non-standard setups](#non-standard-setups)
        - [Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution behind a proxy](#activating-the-frinx-odl-distribution-behind-a-proxy)
        - [Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution on a server without Internet access](#activating-the-frinx-odl-distribution-on-a-server-without-internet-access)

<!-- /TOC -->
This guide explains how to run the distribution for the first time. If you have run it previously, please see [this guide](running-frinx-odl-after-activation.md)

**System requirements**  

**RAM:** 4GB minimum; we recommend 8GB.  
**Java:** FRINX distribution requires Java 8 (Openjdk 1.8.0-171 or newer).  
**Linux:** Supported  Linux distributions are Centos7, Ubuntu 16.04 and Ubuntu 18.04.  

_Note: Unless stated otherwise, this documentation assumes you are using Linux._  

**To install Java:**

Ubuntu: Run a terminal and insert a command below:

    sudo apt-get install openjdk-8-jre

CentOS: Run a terminal and insert a command below:

    sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk

## Download the FRINX ODL Distribution  

Please click on the following link to download a zip archive of the latest Carbon FRINX ODL Distribution:

**Carbon**: [distribution-karaf-3.1.6.frinx.zip](https://license.frinx.io/download/distribution-karaf-3.1.6.frinx.zip)

By downloading the file you accept the FRINX software agreement: [EULA](7793505-v7-Frinx-ODL-Distribution-Software-End-User-License-Agreement.pdf)

## Activate your FRINX ODL Distribution  

To activate your installation, unzip the file and open the directory.  
Enter the following commands in a terminal to start and activate FRINX ODL  

**Note**: The token is unique to your user account on frinx.io and cannot be shared with other users.  
It can be found [here](https://frinx.io/my-licenses-information) (you need to be logged in frinx.io to view your token)

    ./bin/karaf frinx.createtoken [frinx-license_secret-token]

**Note**: FRINX ODL needs approximately 3 minutes to startup and shutdown.  

To maintain system integrity, **please do not interrupt the startup by shutting down running processes** within this time.  

In the event of interruption, the initial state can be restored by entering the following commands from a terminal within your FRINX ODL main directory.  

**First** command forcibly kills the FRINX ODL karaf process  
**Second** command cleans certain directories:

```
kill -9 $(pgrep  -o -f  karaf)
rm  -rf  data/ snapshots/ journal/
```

To stop FRINX ODL safely from within the karaf console, hold the 'CTRL' key and press the 'D' key.  
For more info on operating karaf, see [Operating the FRINX ODL Distribution](running-frinx-odl-after-activation)

## Non-standard setups

### Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution behind a proxy  
Please set up java system properties as described here: <https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/net/proxies.html>

This means running karaf with something like this:

    JAVA_OPTS="-Dhttp.proxyHost=10.0.0.100 -Dhttp.proxyPort=8800" bin/karaf frinx.createtoken


### Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution on a server without Internet access  
Let's call the connected computer ONLINE and the one where you want to run karaf OFFLINE.

    OFFLINE# TOKEN="insert your token here"
    OFFLINE# KARAF_HOME="insert path to karaf"
    OFFLINE# echo "token=$TOKEN";
    $KARAF_HOME/etc/frinx.license.cfg


Generate fingerprint json to a local file:

    OFFLINE# $KARAF_HOME/bin/karaf frinx.fingerprint > fingerprint.txt


Now, copy fingerprint.txt to the ONLINE machine:

     ONLINE# curl https://license.frinx.io/api/v1/obtain-license -d "@fingerprint.txt"  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT > frinx.license.cfg


Copy frinx.license.cfg back to OFFLINE machine, replacing the file in karaf's etc folder. You will be able to start karaf normally:

    OFFLINE# $KARAF_HOME/bin/karaf

### Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution with token read from the frinx.license.cfg file.
In the event of activating FRINX ODL multiple times it might be tedious to repeatedly provide your license key.  

To avoid that you can just create file frinx.license.cfg at $HOME/.local/share/frinx_odl/frinx.license.cfg with the content:

    token=<YOUR SECRET TOKEN>

For example token=fasf6a4f664f6sa4f64asf. This will provide your FRINX ODL your token whenever needed. After you created the file you may run FRINX ODL with clean install just with:

    ./bin/karaf

Commit message:

Adding small note regarding the use of unique TOKEN.
Change-Id: Ifabe148eb44b3476b1a8bbaf2ae6fa7177816064

FRINX_ODL_Distribution/Carbon/Operations_Manual/running-frinx-odl-initial.md, after:

[Documentation main page](https://frinxio.github.io/Frinx-docs/)
[Operations Manual main page](https://frinxio.github.io/Frinx-docs/FRINX_ODL_Distribution/Carbon/operations_manual.html)
# Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution
<!-- TOC -->

- [Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution](#activating-the-frinx-odl-distribution)
    - [Download the FRINX ODL Distribution](#download-the-frinx-odl-distribution)
    - [Activate your FRINX ODL Distribution](#activate-your-frinx-odl-distribution)
    - [Non-standard setups](#non-standard-setups)
        - [Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution behind a proxy](#activating-the-frinx-odl-distribution-behind-a-proxy)
        - [Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution on a server without Internet access](#activating-the-frinx-odl-distribution-on-a-server-without-internet-access)

<!-- /TOC -->
This guide explains how to run the distribution for the first time. If you have run it previously, please see [this guide](running-frinx-odl-after-activation.md)

**System requirements**  

**RAM:** 4GB minimum; we recommend 8GB.  
**Java:** FRINX distribution requires Java 8 (Openjdk 1.8.0-171 or newer).  
**Linux:** Supported  Linux distributions are Centos7, Ubuntu 16.04 and Ubuntu 18.04.  

_Note: Unless stated otherwise, this documentation assumes you are using Linux._  

**To install Java:**

Ubuntu: Run a terminal and insert a command below:

    sudo apt-get install openjdk-8-jre

CentOS: Run a terminal and insert a command below:

    sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk

## Download the FRINX ODL Distribution  

Please click on the following link to download a zip archive of the latest Carbon FRINX ODL Distribution:

**Carbon**: [distribution-karaf-3.1.6.frinx.zip](https://license.frinx.io/download/distribution-karaf-3.1.6.frinx.zip)

By downloading the file you accept the FRINX software agreement: [EULA](7793505-v7-Frinx-ODL-Distribution-Software-End-User-License-Agreement.pdf)

## Activate your FRINX ODL Distribution  

To activate your installation, unzip the file and open the directory.  
Enter the following commands in a terminal to start and activate FRINX ODL  

**Note**: The token is unique to your user account on frinx.io and cannot be shared with other users.  
It can be found [here](https://frinx.io/my-licenses-information) (you need to be logged in frinx.io to view your token)

    ./bin/karaf frinx.createtoken [frinx-license_secret-token]

**Note**: In the event of copying the command shown above into the terminal, insert your unique token in place of [frinx-licence_secret-token]. Do not insert token number into the square brackets.

FRINX ODL needs approximately **3 minutes** to startup and shutdown.  

To maintain system integrity, please do not interrupt the startup by shutting down running processes within this time.  

In the event of interruption, the initial state can be restored by entering the following commands from a terminal within your FRINX ODL main directory.  

**First** command forcibly kills the FRINX ODL karaf process  
**Second** command cleans certain directories:

```
kill -9 $(pgrep  -o -f  karaf)
rm  -rf  data/ snapshots/ journal/
```

To stop FRINX ODL safely from within the karaf console, hold the 'CTRL' key and press the 'D' key.  
For more info on operating karaf, see [Operating the FRINX ODL Distribution](running-frinx-odl-after-activation)

## Non-standard setups

### Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution behind a proxy  
Please set up java system properties as described here: <https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/net/proxies.html>

This means running karaf with something like this:

    JAVA_OPTS="-Dhttp.proxyHost=10.0.0.100 -Dhttp.proxyPort=8800" bin/karaf frinx.createtoken


### Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution on a server without Internet access  
Let's call the connected computer ONLINE and the one where you want to run karaf OFFLINE.

    OFFLINE# TOKEN="insert your token here"
    OFFLINE# KARAF_HOME="insert path to karaf"
    OFFLINE# echo "token=$TOKEN";
    $KARAF_HOME/etc/frinx.license.cfg


Generate fingerprint json to a local file:

    OFFLINE# $KARAF_HOME/bin/karaf frinx.fingerprint > fingerprint.txt


Now, copy fingerprint.txt to the ONLINE machine:

     ONLINE# curl https://license.frinx.io/api/v1/obtain-license -d "@fingerprint.txt"  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT > frinx.license.cfg


Copy frinx.license.cfg back to OFFLINE machine, replacing the file in karaf's etc folder. You will be able to start karaf normally:

    OFFLINE# $KARAF_HOME/bin/karaf

### Activating the FRINX ODL Distribution with token read from the frinx.license.cfg file.
In the event of activating FRINX ODL multiple times it might be tedious to repeatedly provide your license key.  

To avoid that you can just create file frinx.license.cfg at $HOME/.local/share/frinx_odl/frinx.license.cfg with the content:

    token=<YOUR SECRET TOKEN>

For example token=fasf6a4f664f6sa4f64asf. This will provide your FRINX ODL your token whenever needed. After you created the file you may run FRINX ODL with clean install just with:

    ./bin/karaf
